feat(curriculum): add web standards model lectures (#67270)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/blocks/lecture-understanding-the-web-standards-model/69fc74d0fc8a6b0727f288fd.md

---
id: 69fc74d0fc8a6b0727f288fd
title: How do Standards Bodies Operate?
challengeType: 19
dashedName: how-do-standards-bodies-operate
---

# --description--

The open web does not run itself. Every time a browser renders a page, plays a video, or draws a 3D scene, it is following instructions that were set over the years by engineers and company representatives sitting in working groups.

> These instructions are called web standards. And the groups responsible for setting them are called standards bodies. Take a look at them as the legislators of the internet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These instructions are called web standards. And the groups responsible for setting them are called standards bodies. Think of them as the legislators of the internet.
```

The organizations that do most of the work in web standards today include the **W3C**, the **WHATWG**, **ECMA (TC39)**, and the **Khronos Group**. Each of them governs a different layer of the stack, and each operates a little differently.

**The Web Hypertext Application Technology Working Group**, WHATWG, maintains HTML and the DOM as a single continuously updated "living standard." Rather than versioned releases, the specification evolves in real time, edited by a small group with strong editorial authority. Decision-making power sits with the major browser engine teams like Chromium, Gecko, and WebKit.

**The World Wide Web Consortium**, W3C, is the primary standards organization of the web. It has a broad membership across browser vendors, governments, and research institutions.

W3C oversees CSS, SVG, accessibility guidelines, and numerous web APIs. It works through a slow, agreement-driven process where proposals pass through multiple stages of review before becoming official standards.

> **European Computers Manufacturing Association**, ECMA, is a general-purpose standards body, originally founded for computing hardware, that today formally publishes and owns the official standard that JavaScript is based on. It handles the institutional and legal scaffolding, like versioning, publication, and formal recognition. The actual technical work is delegated entirely to one of its committees, **TC39**.

Reviewer: The official name is "European Computer Manufacturers Association" or Ecma international.

```suggestion
**Ecma International** (formerly the European Computer Manufacturers Association, or ECMA) is a general-purpose standards organization originally focused on computing and communications technologies. Today, it formally publishes the ECMAScript standard, which JavaScript implementations are based on. The technical development of the language standard is carried out by Ecma’s Technical Committee 39 (**TC39**), while Ecma International provides the organizational framework, publication process, and standards governance.
```

# --questions--

## --text--

What are the rules and specifications that browsers follow to render pages, play videos, and draw 3D scenes called?

## --answers--

Browser engines.

### --feedback--

Think about the technical "laws" of the web created by working groups.

---

Web standards.

---

JavaScript libraries.

### --feedback--

Think about the technical "laws" of the web created by working groups.

---

HTML templates.

### --feedback--

Think about the technical "laws" of the web created by working groups.

## --video-solution--

2

## --text--

Which standards body and committee are responsible for publishing and maintaining the official standard that JavaScript is based on?

## --answers--

W3C and HTML Working Group.

### --feedback--

Think of the organization founded for computing hardware in Europe and the technical committee that handles JavaScript evolution.

---

WHATWG and DOM Steering Group.

### --feedback--

> Think about the technical "laws" of the web created by working groups.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Think of the organization founded for computing hardware in Europe and the technical committee that handles JavaScript evolution.
```

---

ECMA International and TC39.

---

ISO and TC49.

### --feedback--

> Think about the technical "laws" of the web created by working groups.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Think of the organization founded for computing hardware in Europe and the technical committee that handles JavaScript evolution.
```

## --video-solution--

3

## --text--

> Which of the standard bodies oversees CSS and SVG?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Which of the standards bodies oversees CSS and SVG?
```

## --answers--

WHATWG

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### --feedback--

Think about the standards body that also oversees accessibility and numerous web APIs.

```

---

TC39

### --feedback--

> Think about the standard body that also oversees accessibility and numerous web APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Think about the standards body that also oversees accessibility and numerous web APIs.
```

---

W3C

### --feedback--

> Think about the standard body that also oversees accessibility and numerous web APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Think about the standards body that also oversees accessibility and numerous web APIs.
```

> Think about the standards body that also oversees accessibility and numerous web APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---

ECMA

### --feedback--

> Think about the standard body that also oversees accessibility and numerous web APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Think about the standards body that also oversees accessibility and numerous web APIs.
```

## --video-solution--

> 1

Reviewer: Correct answer is W3C.
